Most PPC managers think that Google Ads
is getting harder year on year. And if
you've been in the industry for four or
five years, I can empathize why you
might feel that way. Google's changed
all the time. Social media is a wash
with 18-year-old gurus who don't know
how to wipe their asses, but they've run
multi-million pound businesses telling
you how to run your ads account with the
latest tips, tricks, and hacks and all
that [__] And then everyone else is
regurgitating the same slop. So yeah,
it's difficult out there. So whilst most
marketers are focused on all that noise
and nonsense, all the changes and shiny
new [__] the winners focus on the
fundamentals or easy mode, I'll show you
some examples. 30% 35 37% conversion
rates. Uh and these aren't fluke. These
are ongoing multiple accounts. That's
the reality. Could be your reality. And
that's what I call easy mode. And who am
I? I'm Ed Leak. I am 15 years into this
industry. Built a sevenfigure agency. I
created the god tier router framework
that's trusted by thousands of agencies
and marketers and freelancers across the
globe and other stuff that I won't tell
you about cuz you can't be asked to
hear. So these are the seven mistakes I
see marketers making over and over and
over and over
>> 3 hours later
>> and over again. Here's your seven steps
to easy mode. Number one, what does
success look like? Clients are spending
money they're demanding. That's their
prerogative. It's your job to set
expectations, not overpromise and
underdel. So you have to be clear and
what's realistic in the time frame. But
where most people go wrong is that they
wait until after the sale. This should
happen at your onboarding phase before
you even take a penny or a scent from
your new client. Because if you don't
cover this at the onboarding phase, I
guarantee by day two, your client's
going to be hammering down your phone
asking you where all the leads are. So,
you want a clear proposal. I used a
two-pager proposal, and I close deals
anywhere from two grand a month up to
six figures a month. So, two pager, you
want your clear goal at the very top.
What is it that success looks like? For
most people, that's a conversion volume.
We need a,000 leads. We need 63 phone
calls. Whatever it is, clear timings.
What does the first month, 2 months, 3
months look like? What are you going to
do and when? Literally break it down
into a table. Show your prospect this is
how it's scheduled and how it's going to
look. And then number three, clear
communication and how you expect to
communicate. We have a bi-weekly call.
We do a monthly report. We don't
firefight emails every hour of every
day. We don't expect that from you.
Expect this from us. Outline it very
clearly because if there's any push back
at this stage from your new client, then
it's a red flag. If you work in a
certain way, spell it out because if the
client wants to work in a certain way
and this isn't compatible, it's going to
lead to fireworks. You're going to hate
your job. You're going to fail. So, by
doing this, you win better clients who
respect your expertise, they respect
your time, and they don't
overcommunicate with you and burn you
out. Now, if you've got no idea how to
do projections uh specifically for
Google Ads, then head over to
edleak.com, my website, stick your email
in and one of the freebies is a
projection spreadsheet or follow the
link somewhere around here and you get
my free template with a guide on how to
use it. It's bulletproof. Number two,
everyone's favorite topic, tracking, but
more importantly, first party tracking.
Get this nailed down and it's a big win,
a big data win in your pocket. and I
know the push back. I don't do tracking.
Not my remitt. I'm here to do Google
ads. Well, if another freelancer or
agency turns up and says, "Yeah, we'll
deal that for you. We'll set all that
up." Then who's going to win the
business? You or them. If you don't want
to do it, outsource it. Pay out of your
own pocket to get it sorted. Part of the
setup phase, but it needs to be done.
Capture offline data, first party data.
And it's up to you if you upload that to
Google Ads, but it's here for your
record. So you understand your own
conversions and not rely on Google Ads.
Why? Because tracking is imperfect.
First party data improves that.
Somewhere around here, there'll be a
pop-up to take you to a two videos that
you can watch on how to set it up. One
for offline data and one for server side
tracking. But ultimately, when you have
first party data, you can use it in two
specific ways. Firstly, you can credit
these conversions, leads or sales in
your backend and also what a a lead
looks like after the conversion comes
in. So, Google ads sees a conversion.
You see the quality of that. Is it a
qualified lead? Is it junk? Is it
something else? Which campaign ad group
keyword did it come from? You can see
all that. Google Ads doesn't see that.
Yes, you can upload that as secondary
conversions and then you can analyze it
in the account as well. But you can do
both of those things. And yes, finally,
you can upload your qualified leads as
conversions and bid against them.
Doesn't always work. Depends on the
data. It's nuanced, but it gives you the
option to do that. Even if you don't do
that, it means you can balance your
budget and your bids based on the the
data you've got on your back end that is
aligned with the business. You know,
leads, leads quality or sales, sales,
revenue, or all of it. Both lead genen
and ecom. Easy mode. Item three,
prioritize foundational search. Google
likes to move buttons, relax targeting,
and rename features to make it look like
they've done some work. This is to
appease shareholders, not your
performance. So, chasing this new shiny
bollocks does not equate to better
performance. We've already seen that.
We've already heard it. Let's move on.
So, get the fundamentals right and you
will outperform most advertisers who got
their head stuck over there. So, what
are these fundamentals? What do they
look like? Well, this is easy mode and
I'm going to show you how easy it can
be. Don't start with automation. Start
with keyword research. Add your keywords
as exacts and use manual bidding. That's
it. Pretty straightforward. Okay, we're
going to add some nuance, but keyword
research, keep it simple, like what is
it that someone wants and are they
location sensitive? For example, dentist
London, dentist Manchester. That would
be two different ad groups, not squished
into one because they're both dentist.
It's just intent driven. And I know what
you might be thinking. This is old
school, Ed. You're out of touch. No,
this is [__] today's school. It
works. It still works. Have you got a 30
35 40% conversion rate? No. If you're
shouting about 10 to 20%, then this
beats you. So, let's carry on. If you'd
like to see me do a full walkthrough of
an actual campaign in more more detail,
then leave a comment and I'll do another
video. But essentially, let's use an
example of divorce. Lovely topic. So,
divorce lawyer is your search term.
That's your overarching intent of your
ad group and your keyword selection. One
location, one service, one negative list
as well. And that's it. And then you you
let the the campaign run and you build
out negatives as you go. And if you
start lacking in performance or you need
to spend more and you can't because
you've got an exact match, you can add
more keywords or you can move to phrase
match. You can expand your horizons.
Same again in the future. I need more
volume. Move to broad if you so wish or
add more keywords. You see where I'm
going? It's pretty simple fundamental
stuff. Or if your cost conversion is
under where it needs to be, you can bid
higher. That's another way to unlock a
bit more volume. So, want to see a super
complex ad group structure? Well, here
it is. Real life example. And uh does it
work? Well, nearly 28% conversion rate
tells me that it's it's working pretty
well. And that's in a really really
tricky divorce niche. So, automation
comes after you succeed. You move from
manual bidding. Once you've got data in,
and is it two weeks or is it 20 weeks?
It doesn't matter. You got to get enough
data that you're confident. You know,
you've got conversions. I can afford
these conversions. I'm fed up of doing
manual bids. Okay. Move to a target CPA,
for example. Essentially, learn what
works. Slow and steady wins the race.
You will outperform people by doing the
fundamentals right. They might run off
quickly ahead. They'll run out of puff.
You'll catch up and then overtake them.
Number four, overrestrictive
budgets and bidding. Being limited by
budget means you're doing one of two
things. You're over bidding. Yeah,
you're paying too much per click. Or
you're leaving money on the table. Keep
it simple. Give your best campaign, and
that's normally the one that converts
the most, room to breathe. You do not
want to be limited by budget. If you
are, and you are really restricted to
that budget, lower your bids. Get more
for your money. So, keep it simple. Give
your best performing campaign or your
main campaign, if it's a new account,
room to breathe. Plenty of budget, and
avoid hitting that limit. Don't be
overrestrictive in the first month. If
you do hit that budget limit and you
can't, for whatever reason, spend more,
consider reducing your bids to capture
more for your money. When you see this
status update, Google is literally
giving you a warning that you are
throttling the campaign. So, take heed.
If you'd like some more help with
optimizing bids and budgets for both
ecom and lead genen and I've got another
freebie. Head over to edleak.com. Enter
your email and I'll send you a uh two
templates completely free with a
supporting training video walks you
through it. These workflows, they're
brilliant. Number five, use competitor
weakness to your advantage. So whilst
your competitors are stuck rumaging
around their Google Ads accounts, you
should hop outside of it and do a bit of
ad reconnaissance. And I know what
you're saying. What is ad
reconnaissance? Glad you asked. I've got
a template. Of course I have. Always got
a template. So ad recon is something I
pioneered years ago and you can follow
along. I'll show you on the screen now.
Essentially, you go to the search
results. You look at all the competitors
ads and then you break them down into
their components and you find angles of
attack that you can improve your offer,
your client's offer, and your ad copy to
suit. It's a really powerful exercise to
do. And yes, you can enhance enhance it
with AI. You can get AI to do it for
you, but I would highly recommend you
learn how to do it first before you
automate it. So, you get that
experience. You get it into your head
why this is critical. So, doing ad econ
uh enables the business to create a more
compelling offer. So, you can literally
take this to them and say, "Look, this
is what the competitors are doing. This
is where we want to attack them. This is
the angle we want to come in at. Can we
do this? Can we work with you to improve
your offer and your positioning?" Big
value. Big value ad for a Google Ads
company. Just doing ads. Well, no. We're
now doing business offers and helping
coach the business into improving their
positioning. Brilliant. You get a better
offer. You can write better ads. You can
adapt that for the landing page. This
allows you to bid harder, spend harder,
capture more from your ads. Win-win.
Scale performance. And again, if you
want this uh ad recon template and free
training, I think it's like a half an
hour walk through, you guessed it,
edle.com. Stick your email in and within
a couple of days, you'll get that one.
after you get the smart bidding one and
loads of other freebies. I send freebies
constantly. So yeah, stick your email
in. I will keep mentioning it because I
give away stuff for free. That's good.
Really good. Better than most people's
paid stuff. Number six, control the
offer. So you've done all this hard work
and then most advertisers, they drop the
ball at the last hurdle. They don't
control the landing page. If you're a
Google Ads expert, freelancer agency
in-house, you want to bring this into
your remitt. You don't want to just be
doing the ads. You want to control the
landing page, especially when you've
done the ad recon as well. So, take your
ad recon learnings, what you've
discussed with the client, apply that to
your landing page. The hero section at
the top, the offer, and your form are
your big wins. They're your levers to
really get the most out of your landing
page in terms of conversion rates. So
focus your efforts on reinforcing with
the prospect why they're here and why
you're the right choice and what the
outcome is going to be for them. That
means a direct benefit driven message
and the core value proposition why to
choose you. Then you want to back this
up with trust signals. So here's another
legal industry example. This generates
around about 25% conversion rate in
legal. It's really really good. And you
can see all those elements working on
the hero section of the page. And guess
what? If you sign up to my email,
there's something about doubling
conversion rates and loads of examples
of the landing page elements as well.
Yeah, I know. ed.com. Put your email in.
Yeah, heard you, Ed. I'll do it. Pause
the video. Do it now. I'm just kidding.
We're got number seven. So, yeah. Uh,
number seven, over reporting on the
wrong stuff. Remember what success looks
like? That very first thing at the very
top of your proposal. Please don't say
no. There are tons of metrics inside
Google Ads. Don't report them all to
your client. Their job is running their
business. Your job is those metrics
partly. So don't report them. Some of
the best reports we've ever done are one
pages. Business metrics, ad spend,
conversions, conversion value,
conversion cost. What else do you need?
If it's ecom, you might pull in revenue.
But if it's lead genen, you might pull
in conversion quality. So how many of
those leads turn into actual quotable
jobs and sales? There are far too many
KPIs and metrics inside Google Ads that
distract from the ultimate goal. The
business owner is trying to run the
business. You don't need to overwhelm
them and burden them with all this data.
The data is your job. It's your remit.
They shouldn't have access to all of it.
It's confusing. And that's not to
belittle the client. They've got other
things that are their priority. In
short, you get to actually optimize
against business KPIs and results and
not fluff metrics that confuse
reporting. So, stop over reporting. And
that's pretty much it. I mean, you can
complicate this a bit more. You can head
over to another video called the
ultimate solution by me uh and add so
much more to this, but these are the
seven steps that I believe are key to
Google Ads success. Short-term success
is fleeting, but processes like this
give you consistent results which make
you really hard to replace and it also
makes it easier when you take on new
clients. So, make these seven steps core
to your Google Ads operation system and
I promise you will win. So, if you want
even more winning without having to sit
through 50 hours of fluff theoretical
training videos, I've got good news for
you. Whilst Google is killing control,
the God tier Ads framework puts it back
in your hands with step-by-step
checklists, templates, and operating
procedures. Head over to godtier
ads.com. God tier ads. There it is. And
always a link somewhere around on the
screen. If you enjoyed the video, do hit
the like, subscribe, leave a comment if
you've got any questions or you'd like
me to split out one of these areas into
its own video because I know I've gone
on a little bit, but your patience
hopefully has been rewarded. Thank you
for listening. Thank you for tuning in.
And until next time, try a bit of easy